All right, so in this lesson, I want to cover a few loose ends.
A few things that we've been working with, but maybe I haven't given you a very explicit explanation
for what some of these things are.
So one of the things that I wanted to show you was the fact that, for example, in a lot of in so many
of these streams, API methods and such.
They take inputs that are referring to various interfaces like predicates and consumers and things of
that sort.
And I tried to explain to you what that means, but you may have wondered, how do I know what that
means, right?
So I want to kind of give you the clues of how to figure this out for yourself.
As an example here, here's the grouping by method.
And if I put my cursor right on the inside there and do a command p to show the parameters, we see
that there are the three different overloaded versions of this guy right in each of the overloaded versions,
though the first parameter is something called a function.
And I've been stating in general, when we have to do these things, a function in general is going
to be an interface for essentially a method that takes an input and then returns an output usually.
And typically, that will be an input of one type and an output of potentially a different type, though
it could be the same data type as well.
That's what a function is now.
I mean, you could just memorize that the fact that I told you that, but I want to teach you how you
can kind of figure out what these things are on your own so that you can know how to utilize them,
right?
Let's see what else here.
The here's one that takes something called a supplier.
And again, I happen to know that a supplier is essentially a function that doesn't take any input,
but it returns some output.
It's often used as something like a generator, like giving you an opportunity to to supply a fresh
something to be used.
In this case, it gives us the opportunity to supply our own instance or our own instance of a map.
Right?
It's a map factory, a thing that supplies maps, if you will.
So let me show you how you can kind of figure these things out on your own when you encounter functional
methods that are referring to various types of functional interfaces.
And you may not be certain what that means, right?
So perhaps a kind of a Bible that you can refer to for these things would be in the package where all
of these interfaces are actually defined.
And we can jump over to the browser here and I'm in the Java Dock for that package.
It is Java that you tilled that function.
OK, now one way that you know, you don't even have to memorize Java you till that function, you don't
need to write it down.
What you can do is when you are trying to use one of these methods, like grouping by and you hover
over it, for example, or you hit F1 to see the Java Dock or you do a command like I did earlier.
And you take a look of the Java Dock and it tells you right there that the method there it is grouping
by takes a function, right?
So you can see right here java you till that function, right?
So there's the package on which that particular functional interface exists.
So that's a way that you can find out what that package is, and you could always just click on that
and then go, look at what this is in this way.
Or you could go to Google and type in Java.
You function Java dot util dot function and then it would bring you here.
So let's just take a look at a few of these and just see, because here's a whole long list of all of
the pre canned functional interfaces that Java knows about.
So a by consumer, so there are keywords that you can use to glean what these what these should be.
And that will inform you as to what kind of lambda expression you might want to write or what type of
method reference would satisfy these guys, right?
So by consumers.
So consumers are going to be functions that take input but don't return anything.
And the word by here means too.
So this is telling me that this is a function that takes two inputs and doesn't return anything.
And you can see over here in the description as well represents an operation that accepts two input
arguments and returns.
No result.
And then we're seeing this little generic stuff here, and we will in the future go a little deeper
into generics.
I think I touched on it in the collections module, but Will will shore up, will firm up a little bit
more of your understanding of that.
We won't go super deep into it because I don't believe it's really necessary, but will firm up a little
bit more of your understanding for this.
But by seeing this generic definition here, combined with the fact that I know that this is a function
that takes two inputs and returns nothing, I can infer then that the two inputs that it can take don't
have to be the same type.
If they were the same type, then you'd just be seeing one letter here instead of two.
All right.
And then we've got a function, so functions, they take input and return output in general.
And the fact that this is something called a bi function tells me that it takes two inputs and returns
one output.
OK, so let's see.
What they say here represents a function that accepts two arguments and produces a result, right?
And the two inputs are are of two different types.
And then the output can be of a third type.
Now it doesn't.
They don't all have to be different, by the way.
They could all be the same and still use this interface.
All right.
Then we've got an binary operator.
So operator, very similar to a function, still takes an input and returns an output binary, meaning
it takes two inputs if we read.
The description represents an operation upon two operations of the same type, producing a result of
the same type as the operations.
And I think that's the key differentiator between operators and functions.
This the fact that the operator is dealing with the same types and then a by predicate.
So predicates we've seen before, we use a predicate for filtering, for example.
So predicates are functions that take an input.
And then and then they return a boolean a true or false.
So they're used in the filters, for example, so that it can inspect properties of the items in a stream
and then determine whether or not those items should be allowed to keep going through the stream with
a truly with a boolean, a true or false.
Suppliers are functions that take no inputs, but they return something, so a Boolean supplier would
be a function that returns Boolean true or false, but it doesn't take any inputs.
Let's see.
Did we already see consumer?
Yes.
So consumer, here's just a can so appear.
We had a buy consumer.
That was the thing that takes two inputs, but returns nothing.
Here's just the regular consumer, so you can infer that this is a function that takes one input and
returns nothing.
We've used these consumers quite a bit, for example, v for each method, right, where we're usually
taking an input of items from the stream and then we're calling like system that out-of-print line or
print f or something like that.
Print line and print f don't return anything.
They just print stuff to the screen, but they don't return anything.
So that would be a consumer.
And then here's another operator.
So then we get into these a couple of fancier things double binary.
So that's just going to be an operator that takes two inputs of type double.
And then presumably it's going to return a double as well.
I I can infer that because it's an operator, a double consumer, it's something that returns nothing
but takes a double just one double, presumably a double function.
That's going to be a function that takes something of type double as an input and then returns something
presumably of another type, though it could be a double as well.
But it allows for some other type, and it's a generic type double predicate.
So again, this is going to be something that takes an input of a double and then returns a true or
false because it's a predicate.
A supplier is going to take no input, but it's going to return a double right.
Let's make sure I'm saying that right represents the supplier of double valued result.
Yes.
So I think I hope you're starting to get the pattern here.
Let's see if there's anything else that I really need to be explicit about.
For the most part.
I mean, if you have any questions as to how to implement any of these.
Things when you encounter them, if and when you encounter them, you can always just look over here
at the at the Java Dock description, or you can even just hover over it, right?
Or you can click on the link and go, See this information here would be in the job.
And that's where this is coming from, in fact.
So for the rest of these that we may or may not have encountered in real life, you should now begin
to to kind of get the the patterns of how they're named and what those names mean, right?
So that's where these come from.
All right.
So let's say that we wanted to create a lambda expression for a bi consumer then, right?
So that's a thing, a function that takes two inputs and doesn't return anything.
So if we were going to make one of those that would look like, well, actually, it just so happens,
I think I'm seeing one right here.
This for each right here, it's taking two inputs and it's calling print death, which means it doesn't
return anything.
So that right, there would be a buy consumer.
And in fact, let me see here if I uncomment that and I comment this one instead, and I will put my
cursor right there and do a command p now.
Currently, this is saying that it just takes a consumer, but I think that's simply because of this
mapping operation that I have right before it.
I think we had this.
I think we were using this for it when we were doing a grouping by.
So if I had the grouping by then we'd have a key and a value and then the for each here would be telling
me that it takes something of type by consumer, I'm pretty sure.
So that's just an example that right?
But that's how I would know what to what to provide there.
So let me comment that one out and uncomment this one again.
So this one here?
Let's see now in in this particular case, I'm actually using this second version here that just implements
a collector, right?
All right.
And let's see here if I put my do a command p right here.
Yeah, here we go.
So this this map once a function and so we now know that a function could be satisfied in this case
with a lambda expression that takes one input and then returns one output.
And that is exactly what we've got here.
We're taking one input and we're calling it whatever we want to.
You know that right?
So I'm calling it s for string.
And then the output is going to be the output method of the split method here, which in our case would
result in outputting a string array, right?
All right, so that's one loose end that I wanted to cover.
Join me in the next lesson and I will cover one more loose end from a while back.
That totally pertains to this module, though, so I'll see you there.